Hello welcome back.
We're gonna make our projectiles a little bit spiffy by having the option to have some missiles heat
seeking and other missiles like this blue ones not heat seeking is just going in a straight line.
We're also going to fix a couple of issues with wonky behavior when you shoot enemies in the arrow is
not behaving as expected.
So let's jump in and get crackin.
Just a quick bit of tidy up from my last lecture.
I left a sword pickup lying around in my scene but it doesn't have a mesh so each time I run over my
weapon disappeared confused me no ends.
Thanks Sam for pointing out how simple it was to fix that if I'd just paid attention.
I'm going to delete that old sword pick up and then find my two other sword because I've pickups I've
created and drag that into my pick up folder of my pick up game object sorry.
And that's pretty good.
I've got an archer that's not in my enemies so just that we have tidy up and put him into the enemy's
folder.
That is fine for now.
OK.
So at the moment as you know our projectiles are homing missiles which I think is really cool but I'd
like to have the option to have sometimes having missiles sometimes not.
Or at least we had to turn it off so that we don't get this.
I think with a with a fireball This is convex Corbett with an arrow it looks a little bit tricky so
I'll keep it in as a fireball behavior but take it out as an arrow behavior and then the other thing
that a bunch of folks in our community have pointed out is a couple of issues we're having so I'm going
to find my let's see find my projectiles so projectiles blue arrow open prefab speed changes down to
10 so that we can see this issue more readily.
I'm also going to increase the distance that my player can shoot.
So where are a bow and the bow with blue projectile weapon range 20.
OK just so I don't have to get quite so close to my enemy.
Let me show you what I'm seeing at the moment here.
I think these arrows are a little bit too slow but you might want to have your arrows slower by the
time my arrow is mid air I've shot another one and you can see it's hitting the collider and disappearing
so it's kind of as if we're hitting the enemy all over again which is a bit silly.
If the enemy's dead I want it to go flying off into the distance and acknowledge the fact that there
is no enemy there anymore so that's one of the issues that I've seen.
And when we play around with it a little bit we can introduce other issues where the arrow kind of just
stops mid air of the arrow sticks and stays around and jitters so as a challenge I'm gonna give to is
implementing a couple of bits of functionality and also seeing if you can find those couple of bugs
or a couple of issues when we do play around with our functionality so we're tweaking our projectile
code the functionality first of all see if you can make out projectile go in a straight line instead
of being a homing missile or homing projectile.
This is a pretty straightforward fix something you should be figure be out to figure out even if you
don't take on the other parts of the challenge.
The second part of functionality is hey let's create an option to select if the projectile is a homing
projectile or is not a homing projectile.
So for example when we implement our fireballs pretty soon maybe they follow the target no matter what
but our arrows don't follow the target and we don't have to go and create a whole new script.
So within our projectile script how do we do that so you can select.
Is this particular projectile homing or not homing and then to fix these issues as they arise as we
make these changes in here new ones might come up hopefully not too many.
First of all the project projectile gets stuck in the dead Target's collider if the target is dead.
We want the projectile just to go flying off into the distance and we also have an issue where the projectile
stays in one spot.
If the target dies before the projectile reaches that you kind of the arrow just sort of pauses Mid
Air is one of the things that I found so all this is going to be in one script just the projectile script
in that class.
See if you can figure out how to improve the functionality of our projectile and I'll see you back here
when you've given it your best shot.
Remember even if you only take on one aspect of this that's better than taking on no aspects of it.
So give it a shot.
I'll see you back here in a moment.
Okay so first thing I'm going to do.
Have a look in my project our code is say what do we need to do so that we can have something that goes
in a straight line is not homing.
So update our big hint here is we're looking at something every frame.
So if something's moving around then we're changing our look at position.
So I think I could just grab this.
Create a start and tidy up my brackets a little bit and I'm going to copy the look at copy and put it
into start.
So the very first thing we do when this projectile is instantiated is it looks at the target and says
aha there's the target right now.
Now if I don't want it to be going towards the target every frame I can just comment this and I'm not
going to delete it because I'm going to put it back in in a moment when we want to toggle between homing
and not homing is that we're no longer on update looking at our target.
So it should be as simple as that.
Let's save that up and see if it works where all of our projectiles now should no longer be homing missiles.
I'm going to see if my enemy.
Run run run.
And yet I can dodge out of the way which you know is really pretty cool.
I think we could have an enemy that shoots big slow things and you kind of have to dodge the gauntlet
as you're trying to get past the guy.
I think that'd be quite interesting so we've now officially made all of our projectiles not homing missiles
just kind of cool but we want the ability to say some projectiles are some projectiles are not so how
we gonna go about doing that.
Well I have decided to add a bull as a new variable top so serialize field.
This will be a bull and we'll call this what is homing and I'll initialize that at true so our projectiles
do start off being homing projectiles and then within my update I'm going to put back in or uncommon.
My look at and I need a little bit of logic in here.
What logic you think we need.
I think it's gonna be as simple as saying If is homing then in that instance we're going to look at
the target.
So therefore if it returns false then we're not going to look at the target.
Let's see how that goes.
Save that up.
Jump back over I will make the red projectile.
Let's go find the projectiles the red projectiles open them up.
We will have them as is homing.
Yes that's good we'll start with that.
And then you know what.
I'll give my other one of the other guys in the scene so I don't have to do this take too long this
guy here with the blue arrow will make this not homing.
OK.
So open up our arrow projectile blue switch off is homing and then I need to find that enemy who's holding
that and give him a bigger attack range I think.
Who is that there.
This is Bob.
Bob.
Now where are you for your distance.
Distance distance Chase distance.
We need to put that up to 20.
OK.
Now Bob should shoot at us with a non homing.
And the other guy homing and not homing.
OK.
So we've got that two different.
You see the blue arrows are just going straight and the Red Arrows are cutting success.
OK.
So we now have the option to have homing missiles and not homing missiles.
Now let's look at the other issues.
What was in our list just here projectile getting stuck and projectile stays.
Okay.
Cool.
We're gonna be using is dead a bunch in this to see whether something is dead or not.
So let's see.
Did I kill this guy.
Bob I think I did Bob for now.
I'm going to move him out of the way so we don't get shot and killed too quickly actually.
No I'll leave Bob there.
Just give the play tons of help.
That's probably the smarter way to do this.
Health points six hundred just so I'm not going to die halfway through showing you what's going on.
Okay now I want my projectiles to be nice and slow so that I can kill this first guy.
But be still be shooting another projectile before he's dead.
All.
You can see I've got a few on the way.
When he dies let's see what behavior happens.
They kind of bump bump bump.
Just kind of blink out into nowhere.
So let's look and see what we need to do here.
Well if we scroll all the way down to.
On trigger enter so our dead enemy we're still colliding with it with our arrow that thinks the enemy
is alive.
So let's putting a line here before we are trying to give damage let's just type in If Target is dead.
Then what are we going to do.
Will return basically at this moment where we collide with the enemy we say is the enemy dead.
If so then don't try to be giving any damage and in particular don't destroy the game object.
We don't want it to go blank into a kind of a nothing collider and burn out.
So it's safe that see how that functionality goes basically we want it to be flying off into the distance.
We'll have to probably have to create another mechanism for destroying it after a certain amount of
time so it doesn't just go sailing into the beyond forever and ever.
But there we go.
Okay.
That's cool.
Look at that.
It just went sailing off sailing off nice.
Now I think if we turn on projectile is homing we get some other sorts of behavior that might break
it again so it's put homing back on for our blue missiles.
This is part of the bug testing you have to test it with homing on with homing off if the enemy shoots
me I shoot at the enemy running around.
So you want to make sure you move it up a little bit and then just do exactly the same thing each time.
OK.
Shoot shoot shoot and then point and you see this interesting behavior.
Let me pause and jump into the scene.
You can see the arrow is just kind of dicking around hanging around.
So that is an issue with homing because when we go and have a look at our homing logic here it's saying
if he's homing Yep then keep looking at the target.
So we just need to say that if the target is dead stop looking at it.
So is homing and and exclamation marks are is not target.
Dot is dead.
That should protect us against the case of homing missiles trying to stick around the dead body and
kind of add insult to injury and be like haha what's that called tea bagging someone maybe that's a
different thing.
No I think that is when you play first person shooter then go look that up online.
If you don't know that means shooting shooting shooting and off in the distance I think that is it.
I think we found all of our issues.
If you find anything else any other bugs we've introduced or any other kind of weirdness if you make
the arrow super fast or make the arrow super slow then you might introduce something else but generally
this is the speed we'd want to have our our magic fireball kind of things I think that's okay any slower
than that is a little bit ridiculous.
We haven't really planned for our game to go much slower and we still want to be out to see when we
shoot our arrows.
So we haven't planned for the arrows to go like a thousand frames per second we we want to have it still
reasonable so you might find some really crazy outliers but generally the game is intended for the arrows
to go between you know projectiles going from that speed to that faster speed.
Okay.
So there we have it.
Let us know in the comments how you went with figuring out this is this the right sort of challenge
for you was it too easy was it too difficult did you like it.
Do you like the hole put your sleuthing hat on and try to figure out what the issue is and give us some
feedback on that let us know how you went.
And I will see you in the next lecture.